Heuristics and Search for Domain-independent Planning (HSDIP)

Heuristics and search algorithms are the two key components of
heuristic search, one of the main approaches to many variations of
domain-independent planning, including classical planning, temporal
planning, planning under uncertainty and adversarial planning. This
workshop seeks to understand the underlying principles of current
heuristics and search methods, their limitations, ways for overcoming
those limitations, as well as the synergy between heuristics and
search.


Call for Papers

Topics and Objectives

State-space search guided by heuristics, automatically derived from
the problem representation, has been one of the most popular, and
arguably one of the most successful, approaches to domain-independent
planning in the last decade. While there has been significant
developments in the design of planning heuristics, such that there are
now many different kinds of heuristics, and some theories of how they
relate to each other have begun to emerge, there is also a growing
realization that the search algorithm plays an equally important role
in the approach. Recent work has highlighted some of the weaknesses of
some search algorithms, but also the rich opportunities for exploiting
synergies between the heuristic calculation and the search to improve
both, drawing on the fact that domain-independent planning offers a
declarative description of the state space (not just a "black box"
successor function).

The workshop on Heuristics and Search for Domain-Independent Planning
(HSDIP) is the eighth workshop in a series that started with the
"Heuristics for Domain-Independent Planning" (HDIP) workshops at ICAPS
2007. At ICAPS 2012, the workshop was changed to its current name and
scope to explicitly encourage work on search for domain-independent
planning.

Examples of typical topics for submissions to this workshop are:
- automatic derivation of heuristic estimators for domain-independent
  planning
- search techniques for domain-independent planning
- synergy between heuristics and search in domain-independent planning
- challenging domains for heuristic search planning

Submissions

Please format submissions in AAAI style (see instructions in the Author 
Kit at http://www.aaai.org/Publications/Templates/AuthorKit16.zip) and 
keep them to at most 9 pages including references. Authors considering 
submitting to the workshop papers rejected from the main conference, 
please ensure you do your utmost to address the comments given by ICAPS
reviewers. Please do not submit papers that are already accepted for
the main conference to the workshop.

Submissions should be made through EasyChair:
http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=hsdip2016.

Deadlines and Dates

Submission deadline: March 4th, 2016 (UTC-12 timezone)
Notification: April 1st, 2016
Workshop: June 13 or 14, 2016

Every submission will be reviewed by two members of the organizing
committee according to the usual criteria such as relevance to the
workshop, significance of the contribution, and technical quality. The
review process will be single-blind: the authors' identity will be
known to the reviewers, but not vice versa.

Submissions sent to other conferences are allowed if this do not
interfere with their submission rules. Submissions under double-blind
review in another conference must be anonymous. In particular,
submissions of papers under revision in IJCAI16 must be anonymous.

The workshop is meant to be an open and inclusive forum, and we
encourage papers that report on work in progress or that do not fit
the mold of a typical conference paper.

At least one author of each accepted paper must attend the workshop in
order to present the paper. Authors must register for the ICAPS main
conference in order to attend the workshop. There will be no separate
workshop-only registration.


Workshop Organizers

J. Benton, SIFT, USA
Daniel Bryce, SIFT, USA
Michael Katz, IBM Research, Israel
Nir Lipovetzky, University of Melbourne, Australia
Christian Muise, University of Melbourne, Australia 
Miquel Ramırez, ANU, Australia
Alvaro Torralba, Saarland University, Germany
